hello everyone it's dolena and last week
asked you guys for questions that you
have about us see audio i B&N many of
you guys sent me your questions and I'm
gonna do my best to answer all of them
in this video now before we get started
I just quickly want to say that I was an
applicant through the German National
Committee and everything I'm gonna say
about the application process and
financial aid is based on my experience
with the German national committee our
national committees may have very
different policies on these things so
please keep this in mind if you're an
applicant from a country evident Germany
all right so now let's get started
was it difficult for you to study in
English as your native language okay so
for those of you who don't know I
actually took English a which is two
course for native speakers and since I'm
from Germany I'm not a native speaker
but I honestly have not regretted it the
teachers that LPC a very experienced and
they know when they should advise a
student to go to English a or when they
should tell them to go to English B so
really trust your teachers on that one
and you're going to be absolutely fine
so no it wasn't difficult it was
challenging at times but it wasn't too
difficult it was really the right level
for me how difficult is the IB well a
decent study schedule gets you good
marks okay so I don't think the IB is
that difficult as many people say but it
is challenging but it's absolutely
doable and a decent study schedule is
going to get you a decent marks but
obviously if you want top marks then
you're also going to need to have an
excellent study schedule and you'll need
a lot of self-discipline because you
will have to stick to that study
schedule in order to get these top marks
what about the journey you have to pay
every time you come and leave would it
be included in the scholarship yes one
of your parents would be able to pay
more than they would like to if they
want to save money for something is it
possible to still get a scholarship
no because financial aid is only given
to students who actually need it things
like saving for retirement or stuff like
that can be taken into consideration but
simply not wanting to pay is not going
to get you financial aid can you tell us
how I did on the test like the math test
to enter you to be see there is no test
to enter University there wasn't a Q
test included in the selection process
but to be honest that IQ test did not
count a lot towards the admissions
decision and there is no subject
specific test so don't worry about
anything like that you do we see ones
what kind of student oh that's what we
all want to know right to be honest I
think University is just looking for
students who are very passionate about
an issue or several issues who are
engaged if they're coming
and you believe in the UFC values and
who would promote a university like
culture at their colleges and of course
they are also hoping that these students
would make a positive change in a world
after graduation is it true that there
especially UMBC scholarships in some
universities if so who sponsors them yes
that is true the most famous one being
the Davis to CC scholarship which is
available at several US universities and
which is funded for Shelby Davis
they are also other international UFC
scholarships but personally I haven't
researched as specifics about them but
don't worry if you added you to be
senior University guidance counselor
it's going to have a list of all of them
so you can get informed about them if I
do community services or volunteer for
an association does that make my
application a strong one yes I know yes
if you are doing it for the right
reasons so you are passionate about this
you want to make a good change but if
you're just doing it to be on your CV
then no and believe me they will know
why you do things because simply by the
way you talk about something it already
tells them why you're doing it so only
do things that you are actually
passionate about and don't just do it
because you think they're gonna like it
on your application and every point
should I be a proficient in English for
the interview no the interview is held
in German so you don't need to be
proficient in English for that one and
there is no language test at the
selection weekend so don't worry other
students allowed to go to the city
regularly whenever they want of course
after lessons for example to join a non
you CC sports club with no university
people yes you are allowed to do that
but there are curfews so you have to be
back by 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and by
11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday or
1:00 a.m. to get an extension or if you
get an overnight you can say out the
entire night did you mind having
roommates no I did not I absolutely love
my roommates obviously having roommates
was a big change for me but I really
enjoyed having roommates and I think
it's one of the best part of the
universe experience so it's something to
look forward to and not be afraid of
what are the cons of going to you to see
the food I'm not kidding I'm a
vegetarian and my dinner and lunch
consisted of rice soy sauce and some
salad for six days out of a seven-day
week so that was really frustrating but
I just say obviously realized that there
were not many options for vegetarians
and they are changing that so I think if
you're becoming a student at LPC even
like one year down the road this is
probably not going to be a huge issue
anymore
could you list to what schools you would
like to go to on your application
yes what word choices and why yes you
could indicate a preference and I
indicated Hong Kong as my first choice
because I wanted to learn more about
Chinese politics and Hong Kong status as
a special administrative region oh this
is German okay um what are your chances
of getting in at the moment how many
applications are there how many are
invited for an interview and how many
gets in at the end so I don't know about
the current stats because well they
don't just you know send out an email to
all the alumni nor like here it's that
um I know back when I applied to this is
like three years ago now there were
around 400 applicants 120 got invited
for an interview and they took around 40
to 50 can you tell us about the
interview what did they ask where people
are they looking for okay so anything
about the interview I made a video which
is linked up here in the info box for
you guys about the UFC interview and
this is really all I can say about the
interview because the questions are
tailored towards the applicant so it's
not going to help you to know the
specific questions that they ask me
because they are going to ask you very
different questions based on your
application what extracurricular
activities did you like most in you CC
I guess I liked Model United Nations the
most because I had never done it before
and I actually got to know it only once
I attended LPC and I really enjoyed it
when I was an LPC because you pretend to
be in a UN Committee and then you talk
about like an issue maybe of regional
importance and maybe of international
importance and you basically have
students from the entire world in that
classroom and you know they all know
about this issue really well and some of
them because it actually effects their
country and that's just so interesting
and mind-blowing like I loved em UN when
is the application weekend what if you
can't attend okay
so the application weekend is in early
January and there are two weekends for
the interviews so 60 people go to the
first interview weekend and 60 people go
to the other one if you can't attend one
of them they're going to offer you to
come to the other one but if you can't
attend either of them well they may
offer you to do that via Skype but it's
highly unlikely so you will probably not
have a chance to get admitted the
weekend is national not international
and your life speak your native language
right yes where in Germany was it oh my
gosh I think it wasn't Castle but I'm
honestly not sure about that and I think
they may change it every year like
depending on which menu is still
available so yeah but don't worry if
it's really far from your home they do
offer to give you support for your
travel costs so that should be fine what
would be an accepted
then not to want to attend a specific
college accepted reasons include
security concerns or for example health
concerns those are by the way really
important to research if you guys have a
specific illness or for example you're
in a wheelchair there are some colleges
which you simply cannot attend so please
make sure to check with your National
Committee wherever you can actually
attend these colleges because you don't
want to get admitted to a college and
then later on him say well actually I
can't come because they don't have the
specific things that I need in order to
look after my health so that's really
important and don't worry the National
Committee's do have lists of the schools
which can support students with certain
disabilities and illnesses so make sure
to contact them about this issue it's
not going to affect your application in
a negative way they just need to know
about it it wasn't expensive to get into
UWC well no it's not expensive to get in
it's expensive to attend but then they
have financial aid and so then it's fine
if there's special College where chances
are the highest to get accepted no
because you just applied to your
National Committee and they choose the
college which you attend so your chances
of getting into any college are exactly
the same do you know any universities
offer dance as an IB HL subject or in
Cass ok I don't know if any of the UFC's
offer that as a higher level subject but
I do know that LPC has a few
extracurriculars related to dance and
they actually do have a dance class
group so yes you can definitely do dance
in your free time were you allowed to
stay on campus during holidays yes we
were allowed to stay on campus during
holidays but not during the summer break
or winter break because those are the
bigger breaks and the teachers have to
go on holidays as well so no one will be
there to supervise us during much a
break you are allowed to leave all of
your stuff in your room and during
summer break we had to pack up our
entire room and then international
students can put everything in a storage
room after college so that we wouldn't
have to bring it back home do you think
it's better to start University in 16 or
17 year old I don't think age matters
for that experience is it okay to be
LGBT at UW see you of course it is I
mean you know BC students are some of
the most open people in the world like I
don't think there's a better place to
embrace being a member of the lgbtqia+
community than being at the Univ BC my
parents are concerned that UFC is a posh
private school and will turn me into a
snob how can I convince them otherwise
oh my gosh I think you do we see it like
the least posh place in the entire world
there are literally
we'll come to class without having their
shoes on and it is socially accepted so
if you want to convince your parents
that LPC is not posh just bring them to
an open day of the uawc and they're
gonna see for themselves how do
universities look at students from UW
see is it a problem that almost circular
activities are in one place now it's not
a problem that our extracurricular
activities in one place and I guess
universities do like students who want
to make a positive change in this world
and believe in values such as promoting
peace and sustainability so I think
you're having pretty good chances of
getting into a university is yeah I'd be
really that much harder than German a
levels um no I actually think Germany a
levels are a lot harder because you
study more subject it's a lot more
intense and so yeah I think if you're
from Germany the IB is actually a little
bit easier than German a-levels would
you recommend you to receive definitely
how much work did you have to do to get
good grade a lot I'm not gonna lie I
mean I wanted really good grades because
I wanted to go to a very good university
and study law so I worked very hard for
these grades but in my opinion it was
worth it how is you do we see you like
as an experience in one word amazing do
you think that if I'm be one in English
will be half me to try and understand
like all the lessons in my school if you
didn't have the opportunity to learn
different subjects in English I think
it's definitely going to be a challenge
but you never cease have a lot of
support for students whose first
language is not English so don't worry
they are definitely going to do their
best to help you in the first months to
adjust to English lessons and then
you're going to be absolutely fine what
do you think one has to write a
notification to stand out and be
accepted to the weekend I don't think
it's really as much about what you're
right I think it's more about how you
write about it because if you write
about it in a very genuine and authentic
way they can really tell that you're
being honest and then obviously like if
the concert is good that helps a lot as
well but yeah I think the most important
thing is really that you're being honest
with them because they don't want to
read a sophisticated essay de it's just
really fake and not you because that's
not going to get you an invitation to
the interview what do you think is the
profile to students you met there I
think the students I met there were
inspiring human beings who had a lot of
energy and who were really willing to
dedicate a lot of their time to
different projects in order to help
others and that Indian inspires you as a
person to also do that and help these
people with their projects did you bring
everything in your luggage no of course
not there was
way too much stuff so what I did is I
brought my essentials like my clothes my
shampoo and stuff like that in my
luggage but I bought things like my
laundry bag or bat cheese and stuff once
it was in Hong Kong can draw on any
University where in USA or Europe easily
yes and no so for the u.s. absolutely no
problem in Europe some countries have
specific requirements of different
subjects that you need to take in order
to be allowed to attend University there
but if you are planning on attending an
international university you are
definitely absolutely fine with an
International Baccalaureate
we have a separate room in the universe
II know you will definitely have
roommates but there are universities
where there are single rooms but I have
no idea which ones they are
but yeah your national committee will
definitely know more about that we
choose the place you will go to know
they will choose the for you based on
your interview and what they think is
the best place for you to study yet I
read that 40% of students at Leeper tune
work from Hong Kong wasn't it weird that
they could all talk to each other in
Chinese while you were probably one of
the few German students there okay so
actually the number has gone up to 50%
now and personally I didn't mind dead
most of the students could speak Chinese
because most of them ended up speaking
English when they work with
international students because they want
to get to know the international
students as well they didn't come there
to speak Chinese all the time and not
learn about different cultures that's
not what you join you to see so it's
absolutely no problem that many students
speak the same language that you don't
speak so don't worry did you feel a sort
of Asian dominated culture at LPC
if yes how did that influence you no I
don't think so
I don't think there was an Asian
dominated culture just because 50% of
the people are Asian that doesn't mean
that you know it's like an Asian school
because it's still an international
school and it's still a UWC so it is
more of an international environment
than in Asian environment if I were
accepted to you to see but my parents
cannot afford it will they get a full
scholarship not necessarily only if your
parents can literally not afford to pay
$1 towards your education but if they
can afford to contribute even just a
little then you'll get a partial
scholarship and that covers everything
your parents cannot cover but if your
parents can contribute a little they
will have to contribute that amount how
social life could you CC is busy but
really good my parents cannot afford my
studies abroad so is there a possibility
then I'd be graduate will get a full
scholarship and you
yes but you have to apply to
universities that offer need-based
financial aid to international students
what happens when a student fails the IB
or is gained a very low school can you
try again I think you have the chance to
retake your IB exams but it's probably
not gonna be at your UW C because
universities are only a two-year program
and they expect you to be academically
strong enough not to fail the i-beam
also how would you recommend people
choosing university school that fits for
them I think do a lot of research on
what they offer especially what kind of
extracurriculars they offer if they have
a specific focus and then think about
which one you would like to attend also
look at pictures and just think about
what you feel at home at that place if
the answer is yes pick it at your first
choice for many students it's just gut
feeling so merely trust your gut on that
one and at the end of the day the
selection committee has very good idea
of what is schools offer so they will
definitely place you in a school where
you will fit in and where you have the
opportunities that you want if my grades
aren't really that great isn't so
possible for me to get in yes but you
will probably have to make up for the
grades with something else like doing a
lot of extracurricular or volunteering
somewhere etc like you really need
something that stands out in your
application that makes up for not so
good grades I applied for you to proceed
this year but I didn't get in and I
wanted to know if it's to have a chance
to get in if I apply second time okay so
here it's really important that you
check with your National Committee on
the national policies on this in Germany
you can apply again if you weren't
invited for an interview if you were
invited for an interview or there's no
second chance but if you still fit the
age requirement and your one advisor put
an interview you can definitely try
again we share more but yes it's from
deification no because the essays that I
wrote were written about a person in my
family who was ill and how their illness
has affected me and this person has
asked me to keep her private which I
completely understand so I'm not going
to share my university essays also do
you think doing volunteering and only
one place and having a blog is not
enough to apply um I guess you can apply
it with like anything you know it's not
really about having enough for me
personally I mean all these
extracurriculars because I genuinely
wanted to do them and I enjoyed them not
because I wanted them to be on my
application and I would really
discourage anyone from just doing
extracurriculars for having it on your
application do the things you're
passionate about it
and you know just allocate
your time to these things and if those
things end up being - that's absolutely
fine if they end up being eight that's
fine - so really do as much as you
personally want to do and don't you know
think about how much do you want to see
on the application it's not really about
the quantity it's a lot more about the
quality of the things that you do and
how genuinely passionate you are about
these things can you give advice on how
to write a personal statement or essay
be honest brutally honest really tell
them who you as a person are and I also
wrote a little guide for you guys on how
to approach different essay questions
and you know how should I get yourself
in the mood of writing an essay for UWC
and that is link below in the
description box if you guys want to have
some more advice on writing essays for
your application
what is sports like in YouTube see is it
just like a hobby extracurricular or do
people have actual practice sessions and
stuff
how about table tennis in specific okay
so LPC did not offer sports as a subject
but there were lots of extracurricular
groups and for sports and they actually
did have like scheduled practices the
football team and the basketball team
also competed in competition so they
actually had to train on a regular basis
in order to get to these competitions
and regarding table tennis there was a
group of students which played
occasionally but there was no like set
Club for it but you can just create your
own Table Tennis Club if you're at you
ever see if there isn't one already the
schools are usually very supportive of
students who want to start their own
stuff so really don't worry about that
and yet those were all the questions
that I could fit in this video I hope
this helped you guys if you guys have
any of your questions about University
or jiv feel free to contact me through
my blocks context section which is
linked in the description box below or
just leave a comment on this video and I
will get back to you
thank you guys so much for watching bye